---
date:
  created: 2025-05-19
---

# ATLAS 10 v11.4.2.226

Release notes for ATLAS 10 v11.4.2.226.
<!-- more -->

### Release Overview

In this release, we focused on expanding recorder capabilities and improving session
comparison workflows, while delivering key fixes across the following areas:
• Waveform display
• PCU dash display

Specific details of what has been covered in each of these areas, as well as information on
other bug fixes made, are included in section Error! Reference source not found. & 5.
Please refer to our documentation site for more information,
http://atlas.mclarenapplied.com/

We appreciate that there are still items to address in the improved areas and would
appreciate your feedback such that we can prioritise issues for future releases.

### Feedback/Support

Where applicable, please contact your McLaren first-line support representative for
assistance.
Submit bugs and suggestions for future releases through the ATLAS Zendesk Portal.


## Diagnostics

### Application Insights

ATLAS 10 includes Microsoft Azure’s Application Insights©, to capture and detect
performance anomalies automatically by gathering exceptions and performance metrics. No
data or workbooks will be captured as part of this. For more information, please refer to the
Zendesk article on ATLAS 10 Application Insights. This option is on by default and may be
disabled via ATLAS > Tools > ‘Allow collection of Metric and Error data’

### Performance Counters

For the Watchdog to provide sufficient information for us to analyse, diagnose and fix issues,
it is highly desirable to have access to the performance counters of a machine.
Access to the performance counters allows it to determine whether crashes are a result of
resource issues, such as excessive memory usage due to memory leaks or operating system
handle leaks.

To monitor Windows Performance Counters, the user account must either be a member of
the Administrators group or a member of the Performance Monitor Users group in
Windows.

### Jet Brains profilers

ATLAS application now includes Jet Brains dotTrace and dotMemory profilers, which can be
accessed via Tools menu. Users can create snapshots that can be shared with the ATLAS
development team for further debugging.

## New Features

### Ethernet Offload Option

Ethernet offload Recorder now available for single session offloads

### Show Differences for Parameters

A new 'Show Differences' option under Parameter Properties is now available when
comparing or overlaying two sessions in the waveform display. This allows for
quicker identification of parameter changes between sessions.

### Updated NASCAR_Cfg.json

The NASCAR configuration file has been updated to a new version,
with Speed and Lat/Long parameters redefined for improved accuracy and
compatibility.

## Bug Fixes

### Crash on DTV Export

Resolved an issue where ATLAS would crash during DTV export operations.

### Nascar Telemetry Recorder Midnight Scrolling/Recording Halt

Fixed a bug where Nascar Telemetry Recorder would stop scrolling and recording at
midnight.

### Incorrect Session End Time on Append

Addressed a problem where ATLAS incorrectly updated the first session’s end time
to match the last session’s end time when sessions were appended. This now
behaves as expected, even when sessions are removed from the set.

### Missing Session Name in Parquet

Fixed an issue where the associated session name was not displayed when loading
Parquet files into a set with a main session.

### PCU Dash Display Scaling

Corrected the display scaling issue on the PCU700 firmware, where the display
appeared much smaller due to unused space from the removed PCU8 lights.

##  Known Issues

These are the known issues, which our QA process has identified for this release build.
Workarounds are detailed where possible.

### .NET 6

####  Difference in Rounding in .NET6

.NET Framework and .NET Core handle rounding when using a custom format, for
instance “0.00”, differently.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-numericformat-strings
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/custom-numericformat-strings

### Export Tool

#### Issue with exporting timed laps to SSN2/SQL Race

Currently, even with the “Timed Laps” option, all the data from non-timed laps is also exported that are
in the middle of the timed laps.

#### Issue with exporting timed laps to SSN2 without “Auto Increment” ticked

Currently, without the “Auto Increment” option ticked the exported SSN2 file instead
of replacing the existing file in the exported folder location, it adds to the existing
SSN2 file. This means the folder in Windows Explorer will show a single SSN2 file but
when viewed in Session Browser will show multiple exported sessions. These multiple
exported sessions can be loaded separately in ATLAS.

### Waveform

#### Waveform refresh issue when switching between Compare modes

On occasions, Waveform in distance mode doesn’t update when switching between
the Compare modes, for instance from Fastest lap to Whole session mode. A
workaround is to force a refresh by changing the zoom level

### Platform

#### Multiple instances of PGVs with the same ID

Multiple instances of PGVs with the same ID are not supported over the LDF/ADF
protocol.

#### Engine Synchronous Logging

The logging config isn’t processed if using FFC and you have engine synchronous
parameters in ATLAS

#### Parameter properties in compare mode

Secondary session not copying all settings from primary session when using the
“PrimarySession” optio