---
date:
  created: 2026-01-23
categories:
  - Releases
tags:
  - ATLAS Viewer
---

# ATLAS Viewer Release: v11.4.4.691-W04

This release introduces new unit definitions, enhances the Stream Recorder functionality, and resolves several bugs related to scatterplots, session browsing, and data integrity.

<!-- more -->

## New Features

### Unit Definitions

Added TAG-700, TAG-510 and TAG-700/HSL-500 to unit definitions.

## Bug Fixes

### Filter Type not saved in Scatterplot

Fixed a bug where filter type value resets to None after saving and reopening the workbook.

### Import/Export Configuration

Resolved an issue where ATLAS would crash when clicking the ‘Refresh’ button on the Export Configuration tool.

### Searching using unc path in Session Browser

Resolved an issue where using an UNC path in the search bar of Session Browser would fail to reliably navigate and display sessions. 

### Filestream Errors 

Auto exported SSN2 files intermittently contain missing or incomplete data due to filestream read failures during multi session offload, resulting in smaller corrupted SSN2s.

### Stream Recorder fails to switch between session when recording

Fixed an issue where the recorder would fail to switch and sessions appear stuck. Sessions now transition reliably with proper state management, ensuring old sessions close gracefully, new sessions begin only afterward, and the ATLAS recorder status updates from Recording → Idle → Recording.

For more information on the ATLAS Stream Recorder, please refer to the [documentation](../../../key-functionality/visualise/atlas/handling-data/recorders/stream-recorder.md).

## Support

If you have any questions about this release or need assistance with 
migration, please contact the Support via [Zendesk](https://mclarenappliedtechnologies.zendesk.com/hc/en-us).