## Session Details

Session Details identify the Session and include information to assist in the analysis of session data. Session details are required for Live Logging, Remote Logging, and Burst Logging.

To open the Session Details dialog box, click **Edit** on the Sessions tab of the Live Logging dialog box. The details are the same on the Remote Logging and Burst Logging dialog boxes.

### Read-only Session Details

- **Session** - The name of the Session File. For Live Logging this is set automatically. For Remote and Burst logging the file name is generated by ATLAS.
- **Serial Number** - Taken from the ECU hardware.
- **Session Start** - Taken from the clock of the system creating the Session file.
- **Session End** - Taken from the clock of the system creating the Session file.

### Editable Session Details

- Car
- Driver
- Circuit
- Race/Test
- Weather
- Notes

### Edit Session Details

1. Select an editable item with mouse or keyboard.
2. Click in the text box at the bottom of the tab or press **TAB** and enter any text in the box.
3. To accept the text: press **ENTER** or **TAB** or select another item with the mouse.

Session details are shown in ATLAS to help you identify the Session.

## Channels

To enhance the versatility of the logging process, parameters are grouped into Channels (sometimes known as Sets). Because channels correspond to physical storage locations in the Data Logging hardware, they are subject to various restrictions.

System Monitor recognizes the unit type from its Program Version and only offers the appropriate channel type. Individual units may have further restrictions (such as memory size limitations) which are recognized by System Monitor and used to further restrict available options and calculate sampling rates.

### Channel Types

**Raw Data**

Used in Live Logging to acquire data from an ECU. Parameters are acquired synchronously. The schedule is based on the PC timer with a minimum interval of 5ms. This time interval determines the rate at which parameter values are logged to disk. Since the ECU sends Parameter values at an unknown and variable rate, some values may be recorded into the session file more often than others.

The Parameters logged as Raw data are set by the embedded code independently of logging configurations. Any Parameter logged by a command from the embedded code instead of by a logging configuration is called a Fixed Parameter.

Fixed Parameters are typically those whose value does not change often, such as Battery Voltage, but any, and in some cases all, Parameters may be set as Fixed Parameters. Fixed Parameters are generally logged at a much slower rate than the Parameters in a logging configuration and are sometimes called Slow Raw data.

**Request Channel**

Used in Live Logging to acquire data from the CA-Card via CAN or direct connection. Parameter values are acquired asynchronously. The minimum acquisition interval is calculated based on the time to acquire each Parameter and the number of Parameters. You can set any time interval on or above this minimum.

**Non-ECU Request Channel**

A restricted form of the Request Channel. Used in Live Logging for Virtual Parameters.

**TAGtronic Channel**

Used in Burst Logging to acquire data from the Burst memory in an ECU.

**DATALab Channel**

Used in Remote Logging to acquire data from the DATALab memory in an ECU. Four independently triggered channels are available. A different sampling rate can be assigned to each Parameter.

## Logging Configuration Files

When a Logging Configuration is edited, the changes made are stored in a Logging Configuration file.

Whenever a New Project is created, a file directory is automatically generated for each logging configuration type - Live, Remote, and Burst. These directories are initially empty.

A new Logging Configuration file must be created before a Logging Configuration can be edited, or an existing Logging Configuration file can be opened.

To open a new Logging Configuration File, select: **File > New** to open the File New dialog box. 

A Logging Configuration file can be saved. If you change a logging configuration, you are prompted to save the modified configuration when you close the project. To keep an old configuration, use the **Save As** command to save the modified configuration under a different name before closing the project.

Only one instance of each logging configuration type can be loaded into a project. If you have modified a configuration, you are prompted to save it when you create a New or Open an existing file.

Remote and Burst logging configurations can also be Uploaded from an ECU.

## Loading Configurations

The Remote logging, Burst logging, and External Inputs configurations are stored in and used by an ECU when it is working independently of System Monitor. To change a configuration in the ECU, it must be downloaded from System Monitor. Similarly, to modify an existing configuration in the ECU, that configuration must first be uploaded to System Monitor. This is not automatic and must be done manually using menu commands.

Separate commands are provided for Remote logging and Burst logging configurations on the Logging Menu and for External Inputs configurations on the Sensors Menu. Note that some hardware may have both types of logging configuration.

### Download

Transfers the configuration from System Monitor to the ECU.

Download only takes place if System Monitor detects an ECU that matches the Program Version used by the current project. The old configuration is overwritten.

### Upload

Transfers the configuration from the ECU to System Monitor.

Uploading overwrites the current configuration in System Monitor. If you have modified a configuration in System Monitor, you are prompted to save it when you select Upload.

Any parameter that is not defined by the current system description is discarded from the configuration. A warning will appear listing the parameters that have not been included in the upload.

